Add vision-language model pretraining strategies blog (#809)
huggingface/blog: vision_language_pretraining.md

In this blog post, we’ll provide an introduction to joint vision-language models focusing especially on how they’re trained. We’ll also show how you can leverage 🤗 Transformers to experiment with the latest advances in this domain.

## Table of contents

1. [Vision-Language Models: Introduction](#vision-language-models-introduction)
2. [Vision-Language Models: Learning Strategies](#vision-language-models-learning-strategies)
    1. [Contrastive Learning](###1-contrastive-learning)
    2. [PrefixLM](###2-prefixlm)
    3. [Multimodal Fusing with Cross Attention](###3-multimodal-fusing-with-cross-attention)
    4. [MLM / ITM](###4-masked-language-modeling-image-text-matching)
    5. [No Training](###5-no-training)
3. [Vision-Language Models: Datasets](#vision-language-models-datasets)
4. [Supporting Vision-Language Models in 🤗 Transformers](#supporting-vision-language-models-in-🤗-transformers)
5. [Emerging Areas of Research](#emerging-areas-of-research)
6. [Conclusion](#conclusion)

> ## Vision-Language Models: Introduction

Reviewer: Good one actually. We will just keep it in "Supporting Vision-Language Models in 🤗 Transformers".

-   Generate a caption for a given image. This can also take the form of conditional text generation, where you'd start with a natural language prompt and an image.
-   Detection of hate speech from social media content involving both images and text modalities.

## Vision-Language Models: Learning Strategies

A vision-language model typically consists of 3 key elements: an image encoder, a text encoder, and a strategy to fuse information from the two encoders. These key elements are tightly coupled together as the loss functions are designed around both the model architecture and the learning strategy. While vision-language model research is hardly a new research area, the design of such models has changed tremendously over the years. Whereas earlier research adopted hand-crafted image descriptors and pre-trained word vectors or the frequency-based TF-IDF features, the latest research predominantly adopts image and text encoders with [transformer](https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03762) architectures to separately or jointly learn image and text features. These models are pre-trained with strategic pre-training objectives that enable various downstream tasks. 

> In this section, we’ll discuss some of the typical pre-training objectives and strategies for vision-language models that have been shown to perform well as far as their transfer performance is concerned. We’ll also touch upon additional interesting things that are either specific to these objectives or can be used as general components for pre-training. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this section, we'll discuss some of the typical pre-training objectives and strategies for vision-language models that have been shown to perform well regarding their transfer performance. We'll also touch upon additional interesting things that are either specific to these objectives or can be used as general components for pre-training. 
```

#### Frozen PrefixLM

<p align="center">
    <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/128_vision_language_pretraining/frozen_prefixlm.png" alt="Frozen PrefixLM">
    <em>Frozen PrefixLM pre-training strategy (<a href=https://lilianweng.github.io/posts/2022-06-09-vlm>image source</a>)</em>
</p>

While fusing visual information into a language model is highly effective, being able to use a pre-trained language model (LM) without the need for fine-tuning would be much more efficient. Hence, another pre-training objective in vision-language models is learning image embeddings that are aligned with a frozen language model. 

> Models such as [Frozen](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.13884), [MAPL, ](https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.07179)and [ClipCap](https://arxiv.org/abs/2111.09734) use this Frozen PrefixLM pre-training objective. They only update the parameters of the image encoder during training to generate image embeddings that can be used as a prefix to the pre-trained, frozen language model, in a similar fashion to the PrefixLM objective discussed above. Both Frozen and ClipCap are trained on aligned image-text (caption) datasets with the objective of generating the next token in the caption, given the image embeddings and the prefix text. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Models such as [Frozen](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.13884), [MAPL, ](https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.07179)and [ClipCap](https://arxiv.org/abs/2111.09734) use this Frozen PrefixLM pre-training objective. They only update the parameters of the image encoder during training to generate image embeddings that can be used as a prefix to the pre-trained, frozen language model in a similar fashion to the PrefixLM objective discussed above. Both Frozen and ClipCap are trained on aligned image-text (caption) datasets with the objective of generating the next token in the caption, given the image embeddings and the prefix text. 
```

<p align="center">
    <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/128_vision_language_pretraining/cross_attention_fusing.png" alt="Cross Attention Fusing" width=500>
    <em> Fusing visual information with a cross-attention mechanism as shown (<a href=https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/VisualGPT%3A-Data-efficient-Adaptation-of-Pretrained-Chen-Guo/616e0ed02ca024a8c1d4b86167f7486ea92a13d9>image source</a>)</em>
</p>

Another approach to leveraging pre-trained language models for multimodal tasks is to directly fuse visual information into the layers of a language model decoder using a cross-attention mechanism instead of using images as additional prefixes to the language model. Models such as [VisualGPT](https://arxiv.org/abs/2102.10407), [VC-GPT](https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.12723), and [Flamingo](https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.14198) use this pre-training strategy and are trained on image captioning and visual question-answering tasks. The main goal of such models is to balance the mixture of text generation capacity and visual information efficiently, which is highly important in the absence of large multimodal datasets. 

> Models such as VisualGPT use a visual encoder to embed images and feed the visual embeddings to the cross-attention layers of a pre-trained language decoder module to generate plausible captions. A more recent work, [FIBER](http://arxiv.org/abs/2206.07643), inserts cross-attention layers with a gating mechanism into both vision and language backbones for more efficient multimodal fusing and enables various other downstream tasks such as image-text retrieval and open vocabulary object detection. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Models such as VisualGPT use a visual encoder to embed images and feed the visual embeddings to the cross-attention layers of a pre-trained language decoder module to generate plausible captions. A more recent work, [FIBER](http://arxiv.org/abs/2206.07643), inserts cross-attention layers with a gating mechanism into both vision and language backbones, for more efficient multimodal fusing and enables various other downstream tasks, such as image-text retrieval and open vocabulary object detection. 

```

### 4) Masked-Language Modeling / Image-Text Matching

> Another line of vision-language models use a combination of Masked-Language Modeling (MLM) and Image-Text Matching (ITM) objectives to align specific parts of images with text and enable various downstream tasks such as visual question answering, visual commonsense reasoning, text-based image retrieval and text-guided object detection. Models that follow this pre-training setup include  [VisualBERT](https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.03557), [FLAVA](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.04482), [ViLBERT](https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.02265) and [LXMERT](https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.07490).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Another line of vision-language models uses a combination of Masked-Language Modeling (MLM) and Image-Text Matching (ITM) objectives to align specific parts of images with text and enable various downstream tasks such as visual question answering, visual commonsense reasoning, text-based image retrieval, and text-guided object detection. Models that follow this pre-training setup include [VisualBERT](https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.03557), [FLAVA](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.04482), [ViLBERT](https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.02265) and [LXMERT](https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.07490).
```

For the ITM objective, given an image and caption pair, the task is to predict whether the caption matches the image or not. The negative samples are usually randomly sampled from the dataset itself. The MLM and ITM objectives are often combined during the pre-training of multimodal models. For instance, VisualBERT proposes a BERT-like architecture that uses a pre-trained object detection model, [Faster-RCNN](https://arxiv.org/abs/1506.01497), to detect objects. This model uses a combination of the MLM and ITM objectives during pre-training to implicitly align elements of an input text and regions in an associated input image with self-attention. 

Another work, FLAVA, consists of an image encoder, a text encoder, and a multimodal encoder to fuse and align the image and text representations for multimodal reasoning, all of which are based on transformers. In order to achieve this, FLAVA uses a variety of pre-training objectives: MLM, ITM, as well as Masked-Image Modeling (MIM), and contrastive learning.
### 5) No Training 

> Finally, there are various optimization strategies that aim to bridge image and text representations using the pre-trained image and text models or adapt pre-trained multimodal models to new downstream tasks without any additional training. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, various optimization strategies aim to bridge image and text representations using the pre-trained image and text models or adapt pre-trained multimodal models to new downstream tasks without additional training. 
```

<p align="center">
    <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/128_vision_language_pretraining/asif.png" alt="ASIF" width=500>
    <em>Crafting a similarity search space using pre-trained, frozen unimodal image and text encoders (<a href=https://luca.moschella.dev/publication/norelli-asif-2022>image source</a>)</em>
</p>

[ASIF](https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.01738) proposes a simple method to turn pre-trained uni-modal image and text models into a multimodal model for image captioning using a relatively small multimodal dataset without additional training. The key intuition behind ASIF is that captions of similar images are also similar to each other. Hence we can perform a similarity-based search by crafting a relative representation space using a small dataset of ground-truth multimodal pairs.

## Vision-Language Models: Datasets

> Vision-language models are typically trained on large image and text datasets with different structures based on the pre-training objective. After they are pre-trained, they are further fine-tuned on various downstream tasks using task-specific datasets. In this section, we provide an overview of some popular pre-training and downstream datasets used for training and evaluating vision-language models. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Vision-language models are typically trained on large image and text datasets with different structures based on the pre-training objective. After they are pre-trained, they are further fine-tuned on various downstream tasks using task-specific datasets. This section provides an overview of some popular pre-training and downstream datasets used for training and evaluating vision-language models.

```

### Pre-training datasets

Vision-language models are typically pre-trained on large multi-modal datasets harvested from the web in the form of matching image/video and text pairs. The text data in these datasets can be human-generated captions, automatically generated captions, image metadata, or simple object labels. Some examples of such large datasets are [PMD](https://huggingface.co/datasets/facebook/pmd) and [LAION-5B](https://laion.ai/blog/laion-5b/). The PMD dataset combines multiple smaller datasets such as the [Flickr30K](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/hsankesara/flickr-image-dataset), [COCO](https://cocodataset.org/), and [Conceptual Captions](https://ai.google.com/research/ConceptualCaptions/) datasets. The COCO detection and image captioning (>330K images) datasets consist of image instances paired with the text labels of the objects each image contains, and natural sentence descriptions, respectively. The Conceptual Captions (> 3.3M images) and Flickr30K (> 31K images) datasets are scraped from the web along with their captions - free-form sentences describing the image. 

> Note that even image-text datasets that solely consist of human-generated captions such as Flickr30K are inherently noisy as users do not always write descriptive or reflective captions for their images. To overcome this issue, datasets such as the LAION-5B dataset leverage CLIP or other pre-trained multimodal models to filter noisy data and create high-quality multimodal datasets. Furthermore, some vision-language models such as ALIGN, propose further preprocessing steps and create their own high-quality datasets. Other vision-language datasets, such as the [LSVTD](https://davar-lab.github.io/dataset/lsvtd.html) and [WebVid](https://github.com/m-bain/webvid) datasets, consist of video and text modalities, although at a smaller scale.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Even image-text datasets consisting solely of human-generated captions, such as Flickr30K, are inherently noisy as users only sometimes write descriptive or reflective captions for their images. To overcome this issue, datasets such as the LAION-5B dataset leverage CLIP or other pre-trained multimodal models to filter noisy data and create high-quality multimodal datasets. Furthermore, some vision-language models, such as ALIGN, propose further preprocessing steps and create their own high-quality datasets. Other vision-language datasets, such as the [LSVTD](https://davar-lab.github.io/dataset/lsvtd.html) and [WebVid](https://github.com/m-bain/webvid) datasets, consist of video and text modalities, although at a smaller scale.

```

### Downstream datasets 

Pre-trained vision-language models are often trained on various downstream tasks such as visual question-answering, text-guided object detection, text-guided image inpainting, multi-modal classification, and various stand-alone NLP and computer vision tasks. 

> Models finetuned on the question-answering downstream task, such as [ViLT](https://arxiv.org/abs/2102.03334) and [GLIP](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.03857), most commonly use the [VQA](https://visualqa.org/) (visual question-answering), [VQA v2](https://visualqa.org/), [NLVR2](https://lil.nlp.cornell.edu/nlvr/), [OKVQA](https://okvqa.allenai.org/), [TextVQA](https://huggingface.co/datasets/textvqa), [TextCaps](https://textvqa.org/textcaps/) and [VizWiz](https://vizwiz.org/) datasets. These datasets typically contain images paired with multiple open-ended questions and answers. Furthermore, datasets such as VizWiz and TextCaps can also be used for image segmentation and object localization downstream tasks. Some other interesting multi-modal downstream datasets are [Hateful Memes](https://huggingface.co/datasets/limjiayi/hateful_memes_expanded) for multi-modal classification, [SNLI-VE](https://github.com/necla-ml/SNLI-VE) for visual entailment prediction, and [Winoground](https://huggingface.co/datasets/facebook/winoground) for visio-linguistic compositional reasoning. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Models fine-tuned on the question-answering downstream task, such as [ViLT](https://arxiv.org/abs/2102.03334) and [GLIP](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.03857), most commonly use the [VQA](https://visualqa.org/) (visual question-answering), [VQA v2](https://visualqa.org/), [NLVR2](https://lil.nlp.cornell.edu/nlvr/), [OKVQA](https://okvqa.allenai.org/), [TextVQA](https://huggingface.co/datasets/textvqa), [TextCaps](https://textvqa.org/textcaps/) and [VizWiz](https://vizwiz.org/) datasets. These datasets typically contain images paired with multiple open-ended questions and answers. Furthermore, datasets such as VizWiz and TextCaps can also be used for image segmentation and object localization downstream tasks. Some other interesting multi-modal downstream datasets are [Hateful Memes](https://huggingface.co/datasets/limjiayi/hateful_memes_expanded) for multi-modal classification, [SNLI-VE](https://github.com/necla-ml/SNLI-VE) for visual entailment prediction, and [Winoground](https://huggingface.co/datasets/facebook/winoground) for visio-linguistic compositional reasoning. 
```

> Note that vision-language models are used for various classical NLP and computer vision tasks such as text or image classification, and typically use uni-modal datasets ([SST2](https://huggingface.co/datasets/sst2), [ImageNet-1k](https://huggingface.co/datasets/imagenet-1k), for example) for such downstream tasks. In addition, datasets such as [COCO](https://cocodataset.org/), and [Conceptual Captions](https://ai.google.com/research/ConceptualCaptions/) are commonly used both in the pre-training of models and also for the caption generation downstream task. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that vision-language models are used for various classical NLP and computer vision tasks such as text or image classification and typically use uni-modal datasets ([SST2](https://huggingface.co/datasets/sst2), [ImageNet-1k](https://huggingface.co/datasets/imagenet-1k), for example) for such downstream tasks. In addition, datasets such as [COCO](https://cocodataset.org/) and [Conceptual Captions](https://ai.google.com/research/ConceptualCaptions/) are commonly used both in the pre-training of models and also for the caption generation downstream task. 

```

For example, OWL-ViT [enables](https://huggingface.co/spaces/adirik/OWL-ViT) zero-shot / text-guided and one-shot / image-guided object detection, CLIPSeg and GroupViT [enable](https://huggingface.co/spaces/nielsr/CLIPSeg) text and image-guided image segmentation, and VisualBERT, GIT and ViLT [enable](https://huggingface.co/spaces/nielsr/vilt-vqa) visual question answering as well as various other tasks. X-CLIP is a multimodal model trained with video and text modalities and [enables](https://huggingface.co/spaces/fcakyon/zero-shot-video-classification) zero-shot video classification similar to CLIP’s zero-shot image classification capabilities.

Unlike other models, the `VisionEncoderDecoderModel` is a cookie-cutter model that can be used to initialize an image-to-text model with any pre-trained Transformer-based vision model as the encoder (e.g. ViT, BEiT, DeiT, Swin) and any pre-trained language model as the decoder (e.g. RoBERTa, GPT2, BERT, DistilBERT). In fact, TrOCR is an instance of this cookie-cutter class.

> Let’s go ahead and experiment with some of these models. We will use [ViLT](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/vilt) for visual question answering and [CLIPSeg](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/clipseg) for zero-shot image segmentation. First, let’s install 🤗Transformers: `pip install transformers`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let’s go ahead and experiment with some of these models. We will use [ViLT](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/vilt) for visual question answering and [CLIPSeg](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/clipseg) for zero-shot image segmentation. First, let’s install 🤗Transformers: `pip install transformers`.

```

```py
import requests
from PIL import Image

processor = ViltProcessor.from_pretrained("dandelin/vilt-b32-finetuned-vqa")

# download an input image
url = "http://images.cocodataset.org/val2017/000000039769.jpg"
image = Image.open(requests.get(url, stream=True).raw)
text = "How many cats are there?"

# prepare inputs
inputs = processor(image, text, return_tensors="pt")
```

Finally, we can perform inference using the pre-processed image and question as input and print the predicted answer. However, an important point to keep in mind is to make sure your text input resembles the question templates used in the training setup. You can refer to [the paper and the dataset](https://arxiv.org/abs/2102.03334) to learn how the questions are formed. 

```py
import torch

# forward pass
with torch.no_grad():
    outputs = model(**inputs)

logits = outputs.logits
idx = logits.argmax(-1).item()
print("Predicted answer:", model.config.id2label[idx])
```

> Straight-forward, right? Let’s do another demonstration with CLIPSeg and see how we can perform zero-shot image segmentation with a few lines of code. 
> ### CLIPSeg for zero-shot image segmentation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Straight-forward, right? Let’s do another demonstration with CLIPSeg and see how we can perform zero-shot image segmentation with a few lines of code. 

### CLIPSeg for zero-shot image segmentation
```

We will start by initializing `CLIPSegForImageSegmentation` and its corresponding pre-processing class and load our pre-trained model.

```py
from transformers import CLIPSegProcessor, CLIPSegForImageSegmentation

processor = CLIPSegProcessor.from_pretrained("CIDAS/clipseg-rd64-refined")
model = CLIPSegForImageSegmentation.from_pretrained("CIDAS/clipseg-rd64-refined")
```

Next, we will use the same input image and query the model with the text descriptions of all objects we want to segment. Similar to other pre-processors, `CLIPSegProcessor` transforms the inputs to the format expected by the model. As we want to segment multiple objects, we input the same image for each text description separately.

```py
from PIL import Image
import requests

url = "http://images.cocodataset.org/val2017/000000039769.jpg"
image = Image.open(requests.get(url, stream=True).raw)
texts = ["a cat", "a remote", "a blanket"]

inputs = processor(text=texts, images=[image] * len(texts), padding=True, return_tensors="pt")
```

> Similar to ViLT, it’s important to refer to the [original work](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.10003) to see what kind of text prompts are used to train the model in order to get the best performance during inference. While CLIPSeg is trained on simple object descriptions (e.g., “a car”), its CLIP backbone is pre-trained on engineered text templates (e.g., “an image of a car”, “a photo of a car”) and kept frozen during training. Once the inputs are preprocessed, we can perform inference to get a binary segmentation map of shape (height, width) for each text query.

Reviewer 2: Sometimes we write preprocess and sometimes pre-process. Let's try to be consistent please

## Conclusion

> There have been incredible advances in multimodal models in recent years, with vision-language models making the biggest leap both in terms of performance and the variety of use cases and applications. In this blog, we talked about the latest advancements in vision-language models, as well as what multimodal datasets are available and which pre-training strategies we can use to train and fine-tune such models. We also showed how these models are integrated into 🤗 Transformers and how you can use them to perform various tasks with a few lines of code. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There have been incredible advances in multimodal models in recent years, with vision-language models making the most significant leap in performance and the variety of use cases and applications. In this blog, we talked about the latest advancements in vision-language models, as well as what multimodal datasets are available and which pre-training strategies we can use to train and fine-tune such models. We also showed how these models are integrated into 🤗 Transformers and how you can use them to perform various tasks with a few lines of code. 
```

We are continuing to integrate the most impactful computer vision and multimodal models and would love to hear back from you. To stay up to date with the latest news in multimodal research, you can follow us on Twitter: [@adirik](https://twitter.com/https://twitter.com/alaradirik), [@NielsRogge](https://twitter.com/NielsRogge), [@apsdehal](https://twitter.com/apsdehal), [@a_e_roberts](https://twitter.com/a_e_roberts), [@RisingSayak](https://mobile.twitter.com/a_e_roberts), and [@huggingface](https://twitter.com/huggingface).

> *Acknowledgements: We thank Amanpreet Singh and Amy Roberts for their rigorous reviews. Also, thanks to Niels Rogge, Younes Belkada, Suraj Patil among many others at Hugging Face, who laid out the foundations for increasing the use of multimodal models from Transformers.*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Acknowledgements: We thank Amanpreet Singh and Amy Roberts for their rigorous reviews. Also, thanks to Niels Rogge, Younes Belkada, and Suraj Patil, among many others at Hugging Face, who laid out the foundations for increasing the use of multimodal models from Transformers.*
```

---

> title: "A Dive into Pretraining Strategies for Vision-Language Models"

Reviewer: Maybe just Vision-Language Models?

Author: Makes sense, how about "A Deep into for Vision-Language Models"?

Reviewer: "Deep into" seems incomplete to me.

Reviewer: Or maybe just "A Dive into Vision-Language Models"?

Author: Sorry, I meant "A Deep Dive into Vision-Language Models" but "A Dive into Vision-Language Models" also works

Reviewer: Alright! Let's update with the latter one the.  I am outside currently, if you can, could you do it if possible?

thumbnail: /blog//assets/128_vision_language_pretraining/thumbnail.png
---

<h1>A Dive into Pretraining Strategies for Vision-Language Models</h1>

<div class="blog-metadata">

>     <small>Published January 27, 2023.</small>

Reviewer: What about publishing it later next week? We have an upcoming blog on "CV at 🤗" planned.

Author: Makes sense, would February 2nd or 3rd work?

Reviewer: Let's do it on 3rd?

Since 2021, we’ve seen an increased interest in models that combine vision and language modalities (also called joint vision-language models), such as [OpenAI’s CLIP](https://openai.com/blog/clip/). Joint vision-language models have shown particularly impressive capabilities in very challenging tasks such as image captioning, text-guided image generation and manipulation, and visual question-answering. This field continues to evolve, and so does its effectiveness in improving zero-shot generalization leading to various practical use cases. 

In this blog post, we’ll provide an introduction to joint vision-language models focusing especially on how they’re trained. We’ll also show how you can leverage 🤗 Transformers to experiment with the latest advances in this domain.

# Table of contents

1. [Vision-Language Models: Introduction]
2. [Vision-Language Models: Learning Strategies]
    1. [Contrastive Learning]
    2. [PrefixLM]
    3. [Multimodal Fusing with Cross Attention]
    4. [MLM / ITM]
    5. [No Training]
3. [Vision-Language Models: Datasets]
4. [Supporting Vision-Language Models in 🤗 Transformers]
5. [Emerging Areas of Research]

> 6. [Conclusion]

Reviewer: Update with section hyperlinks?

Author: Yes, updating it :)

<p align="center">
    <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/128_vision_language_pretraining/example1.png" alt="drawing"><br>
    <em>The cat and dog image has been taken from [here.](https://www.istockphoto.com/photos/dog-cat-love)</em>
</p>

To be able to predict something like that, the model needs to understand both the input image and the text prompts. To achieve this understanding, the model would have separate or fused encoders for vision and language. 

But these inputs and outputs can take several forms. Below we give some examples:
-   Image retrieval from natural language text.
-   Phrase grounding, i.e., performing object detection from an input image and natural language phrase (example: A **young person** swings a **bat**).
-   Visual question answering, i.e., finding answers from an input image and a question in natural language.
-   Generate a caption for a given image. This can also take the form of conditional text generation, where you'd start with a natural language prompt and an image.
-   Detection of hate speech from social media content involving both images and text modalities.

> # Vision-Language Models: Learning Strategies

Reviewer: Leave a gap between the header and the text?

Unlike other models, the `VisionEncoderDecoderModel` is a cookie-cutter model that can be used to initialize an image-to-text model with any pre-trained Transformer-based vision model as the encoder (e.g. ViT, BEiT, DeiT, Swin) and any pre-trained language model as the decoder (e.g. RoBERTa, GPT2, BERT, DistilBERT). In fact, TrOCR is an instance of this cookie-cutter class.

Let’s go ahead and experiment with some of these models. We will use [ViLT](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/vilt) for visual question answering and [CLIPSeg](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/clipseg) for zero-shot image segmentation. First, let’s install 🤗Transformers: `pip install transformers`.

#### ViLT for VQA

Let’s start with ViLT and download a model pre-trained on the VQA dataset. We can do this by simply initializing the corresponding model class and calling the `from_pretrained()` method to download our desired checkpoint.

```py

from transformers import ViltProcessor, ViltForQuestionAnswering

model = ViltForQuestionAnswering.from_pretrained("dandelin/vilt-b32-finetuned-vqa")

> ```

Reviewer: Can we remove the unnecessary spaces?

Next, we will download a random image of two cats and preprocess both the image and our  query question to transform them to the input format expected by the model. To do this, we can conveniently use the corresponding preprocessor class (`ViltProcessor`) and initialize it with the pre-processing configuration of the corresponding checkpoint. 

```py

import requests

from PIL import Image

processor = ViltProcessor.from_pretrained("dandelin/vilt-b32-finetuned-vqa")

# download an input image

url = "http://images.cocodataset.org/val2017/000000039769.jpg"

image = Image.open(requests.get(url, stream=True).raw)

text = "How many cats are there?"

# prepare inputs

inputs = processor(image, text, return_tensors="pt")

> ```

Reviewer: Can we remove the unnecessary spaces

Finally, we can perform inference using the pre-processed image and question as input and print the predicted answer. However, an important point to keep in mind is to make sure your text input resembles the question templates used in the training setup. You can refer to [the paper and the dataset](https://arxiv.org/abs/2102.03334) to learn how the questions are formed. 

```py

import torch

# forward pass

with torch.no_grad():

    outputs = model(**inputs)

logits = outputs.logits

idx = logits.argmax(-1).item()

print("Predicted answer:", model.config.id2label[idx])

> ```

Reviewer: Can we remove the unnecessary spaces?

Straight-forward, right? Let’s do another demonstration with CLIPSeg and see how we can perform zero-shot image segmentation with a few lines of code. 

#### CLIPSeg for zero-shot image segmentation

We will start by initializing `CLIPSegForImageSegmentation` and its corresponding pre-processing class and load our pre-trained model.

```py

from transformers import CLIPSegProcessor, CLIPSegForImageSegmentation

processor = CLIPSegProcessor.from_pretrained("CIDAS/clipseg-rd64-refined")

model = CLIPSegForImageSegmentation.from_pretrained("CIDAS/clipseg-rd64-refined")

> ```

Reviewer: Can we remove the unnecessary spaces?

Next, we will use the same input image and query the model with the text descriptions of all objects we want to segment. Similar to other pre-processors, `CLIPSegProcessor` transforms the inputs to the format expected by the model. As we want to segment multiple objects, we input the same image for each text description separately.

```py

from PIL import Image

import requests

url = "http://images.cocodataset.org/val2017/000000039769.jpg"

image = Image.open(requests.get(url, stream=True).raw)

texts = ["a cat", "a remote", "a blanket"]

inputs = processor(text=texts, images=[image] * len(texts), padding=True, return_tensors="pt")

> ```

Reviewer: Can we remove the unnecessary spaces?

Similar to ViLT, it’s important to refer to the [original work](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.10003) to see what kind of text prompts are used to train the model in order to get the best performance during inference. While CLIPSeg is trained on simple object descriptions (e.g., “a car”), its CLIP backbone is pre-trained on engineered text templates (e.g., “an image of a car”, “a photo of a car”) and kept frozen during training. Once the inputs are preprocessed, we can perform inference to get a binary segmentation map of shape (height, width) for each text query.

```py

import torch

with torch.no_grad():

    outputs = model(**inputs)

logits = outputs.logits

print(logits.shape)

>>> torch.Size([3, 352, 352])

> ```

Reviewer: Same.

Let’s visualize the results to see how well CLIPSeg performed (code is adapted from [this post](https://huggingface.co/blog/clipseg-zero-shot)).

```py

import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

logits = logits.unsqueeze(1)

_, ax = plt.subplots(1, len(texts) + 1, figsize=(3*(len(texts) + 1), 12))

[a.axis('off') for a in ax.flatten()]

ax[0].imshow(image)

[ax[i+1].imshow(torch.sigmoid(logits[i][0])) for i in range(len(texts))];

[ax[i+1].text(0, -15, prompt) for i, prompt in enumerate(texts)]

> ```

Reviewer: Same.

# Conclusion

There have been incredible advances in multimodal models in recent years, with vision-language models making the biggest leap both in terms of performance and the variety of use cases and applications. In this blog, we talked about the latest advancements in vision-language models, as well as what multimodal datasets are available and which pre-training strategies we can use to train and fine-tune such models. We also showed how these models are integrated into 🤗 Transformers and how you can use them to perform various tasks with a few lines of code. 

We are continuing to integrate the most impactful computer vision and multimodal models and would love to hear back from you. To stay up to date with the latest news in multimodal research, you can follow us on Twitter: [@adirik](https://twitter.com/adirik), [@NielsRogge](https://twitter.com/NielsRogge), [@apsdehal](https://twitter.com/apsdehal), [@a_e_roberts](https://twitter.com/a_e_roberts),  @RisingSayak](https://mobile.twitter.com/a_e_roberts), and [@huggingface](https://twitter.com/huggingface).

> 

Reviewer: Looks like a "[" is missing from my username.
